# Exudate-Detction-
Detection of Exudate from Fundus image
Diabetes  Retinopathy  is  a  diabetic  problem that  affects  the  retina  of  an  eye.  Diagnosis using screening results is a difficult task. Development of retinal lesions, micro aneurysm and hemorrhages in retina cause to an eye disease known as Diabetic Retinopathy. Early detection and diagnosis with the help of regular eyes examination can squeeze the chances of vision impairment among the patient. Diabetic Retinopathy is mostly asymptomatic, diseased will not know their retina is getting affected. By the time the diseased starts getting vision deterioration or blur, it might have got to a higher grade of severity, making it hard to reverse vision that patient has lost.

A normal retinal fundus image comprises of a healthy retina, a tissue layer that lies in the innermost surface of an eye. The light which falls within the retinal region are captured converted to electrical impulses when are then directed through the optic nerve to our brain, where it gets transformed into images. Figure 1.1 shows a few normal retinal fundus images. The retinal surface which is photographed using fundus photography consists of a bright circular region known as the optic disk. Where’s branch like structures are the blood vessels which carries  blood  and  other  essential  components  for  the  healthy  functioning  of  an eye. Macula is a pigmented region towards the center of the retina, responsible for central vision. It contains a couple of layers of the ganglion cells. The center of Macula is called as the Fovea which contains the highest concentration of cone cells which helps with color vision and are at its best when exposed to bright light. Verations in levels of sugar in blood will cause the retinal blood vessels to become weak, leading to diabetic retinopathy. 

Diabetic  retinopathy is  a  chronic  disease,  which affects  the  blood  vessels  and  the  signs  of  disease appears  on  the  retinal  surface.  A  computerized  and  robust  technique  that  is  invariant  to  the imaging conditions and varied illumination patterns caused by severe abnormalities on the image is  required  to  automate  the  detection  process.  The presence of exudates, microaneurysms, hemorrhages are visible signs of diabetic retinopathy disease in a fundus image. Their shapes, contrast  levels,  sizes  of  the  abnormality  varies  and  accurate  techniques  to  detect  and  classify them  have  to  be  employed  for  early  and  successful  diagnosis  of  the  disease.  The presence of these abnormalities indicate the severity of the disease [4]. Figure 2 shows a few examples of images with Diabetic Retinopathy.  The 5  major  classes  of  this  disease  are:  Mild  NPDR  (Non proliferative diabetic retinopathy) which indicates the presence of microaneurysms on the retinal surfaces. Moderate NPDR are cases where there are multiple microaneurysms present along with cotton wool spots and hemorrhages.  In  the  case  of  severe  NPDR,  the  presence  of  lesions, hemorrhages are severe and retinal blood supply are greatly compromised here. This eventually directs  the  retina  to  send  signals  for  the  growth  of  new  blood  vessels.  This stage  is  called   
as proliferative  diabetic  retinopathy.  At  this  stage  is  severe  vision  impairment  as  the  new  blood vessels are fragile and abnormal, are easily prone to bleeding.



Classification of diabetic retinopathy disease’s severity level is a time consuming task as it involves a lot of feature information that needs to be detected and localized manually from the retinal image. An auto detection technique using a ‘learnt’ model can be used to help the clinicians diagnose the disease with ease and decide on a treatment plan for the diseased. Several researches exists on disease classification using the retinal blood vessel data. Machine learning techniques, morphological operations and image processing techniques were used in most of the researches [15], [4]. The input images undergo a pre- processing step where noise, optic disk identification are carried out and a few papers to extract the retinal blood vessel.  The  area  of  the  blood  vessels  are  used  for  the  detection  of  diabetic  retinopathy. Abnormalities  in  the  image  are  identified  and  the  identified  features  are  used  to  group  the  images according to the disease severity level. The objective of this research is to automate the detection of exudates from retinal fundus images based on the severity levels of diabetic retinopathy disease using image processing techniques. 
